A 90-year-old British grandmother of four has become the first person in the West to receive a COVID-19 vaccine outside clinical trials.
At 6:31 a.m. local time on Tuesday at University Hospital in the English city of Coventry, Margaret Keenan was given her first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech.
Keenan, who turns 91 next week, said she felt "so privileged" to take the vaccine, according to the UK National Health Service.
"It's the best early birthday present I could wish for because it means I can finally look forward to spending time with my family and friends in the New Year after being on my own for most of the year," she said, according to the NHS.
The UK began its massive rollout to vaccinate its citizens less than a week after the country's drug regulator approved Pfizer and BioNTech's vaccine. It's the first Western country both to approve and to then administer a vaccine designed to prevent the illness caused by the novel coronavirus.
The regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, said the decision to approve the vaccine came after "months of rigorous clinical trials and a thorough analysis of the data by experts at the MHRA who have concluded that the vaccine has met its strict standards of safety, quality, and effectiveness."
The UK has ordered about 40 million doses, enough for 20 million people to be vaccinated with the two-dose shot. Officials have said healthcare workers and members of society considered most vulnerable to severe illness will get top priority.
The vaccine was found in its late-stage trial to prevent people from getting sick with COVID-19, but it's unclear whether it prevents transmission of the coronavirus, so masks, social distancing, and other mitigation strategies will still be needed while the vaccine is rolled out.
Cardiff, Wales (CNN)The United Kingdom has become the first Western nation to begin vaccinating its citizens with a Covid-19 shot outside of clinical trials -- a landmark moment in the coronavirus pandemic.
The first Briton to get the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine -- 90-year-old Margaret Keenan -- received the first of two doses at 6:31 a.m. local time on Tuesday at University Hospital in Coventry, less than a week after the UK became the first country to approve it.
Keenan, who turns 91 next week, said she felt "privileged" to be the first to get the shot.
William Shakespere, 81, receives the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, at University Hospital, Coventry, England on Tuesday.
Nurse Joanna Sloan was the first person in Northern Ireland to receive the vaccine, while George Dyer became one of the first people in London to get the shot at Croydon Health Services.
"Covid-19 is a terrible thing and I feel very lucky that I can now get this vaccine to keep the virus away," said Dyer, a former butcher and hospital volunteer. "It's like I'm about to be given a new lease of life, and I cannot wait to get back out there and make myself useful again."
Gill Rogers, whose husband died with the virus in residential care in April, was among the first to receive the vaccine in Sussex, in southeast England, on Tuesday.
The 86-year-old, who lives near Brighton, told the BBC it had been "quite hard" dealing with grief as well as isolation and that being given the shot meant she would not need to be so careful.
"And so my message would be it's amazing to see the vaccine come out, it's amazing to see this tremendous shot in the arm for the entire nation, but we can't afford to relax now," the PM said.
"I would just say to all those who are scared, don't be ... you see people take the vaccine this morning, in large numbers, people are going to be taking it in the next few days, and weeks and there is nothing to be nervous about."
Asked whether he was getting the vaccine himself, Johnson said: "I am not in the priority group ... I've had it (the virus)."
What happens next
The UK has ordered 40 million doses of the vaccine, but only 800,000 shots will be available as part of the first wave that began on Tuesday.
Because the vaccine requires two doses, administered at least three weeks apart, the UK will eventually have enough shots to vaccinate roughly a third of the country's population.
The country has also ordered 7 million doses of the Moderna vaccine, which could be approved for emergency use in the UK within the next few weeks.
Former White House advisor Kellyanne Conway admitted that Democratic President-elect Joe Biden is the winner of the 2020 election, going against President Donald Trump, who has yet to concede.
"The president wants to exhaust all of his legal avenues, as he has made clear many times. His team is doing that, and that is his right," Conway said in an interview with The 19th that aired Friday. "If you look at the vote totals in the Electoral College tally, it looks like Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will prevail. I assume the electors will certify that and it will be official. We, as a nation, will move forward, because we always do."
Biden won the presidency weeks ago, but Trump has repeatedly refused to concede. At one point, he appeared to concede the results and acknowledge Biden's victory. But he quickly walked back those comments, saying, "I concede NOTHING."
Trump has launched a series of legal attacks to contest the election results. So far, he's won none of them.